.TH CHATBASH 1 "17 March 2023"
.SH NAME
chatbash - Translate natural language prompts to bash commands and explain them
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B chatbash
.RB [ -q ]
.RI [ prompt ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B chatbash
is a Python script that translates natural language prompts into bash commands. It leverages the OpenAI GPT-3.5-turbo model to assist with generating the commands and their explanations. You can also provide feedback to refine the generated command or request an explanation of the command.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -q
Quick explanation mode. Only provides an explanation of the given prompt and exits.

.SH USAGE
To start the script, run:
.B chatbash

You can optionally provide a prompt as an argument:
.B chatbash "your prompt"

For a quick explanation of the command, use the '-q' flag:
.B chatbash -q "your prompt"

While using the script, you can enter the following options to interact with the generated command:
.IP "1. (r)un"
Runs the generated command.
.IP "2. (q)uit"
Exits the script.
.IP "3. e(x)plain"
Requests an explanation for the generated command.
.IP "4. (f)eedback"
Provide feedback to refine the generated command.
.IP "5. (e)dit"
Edit the generated command.
.IP "6. (p)rint conversation"
Prints the conversation history between the user and the assistant.
.IP "7. (t)hrow prompt and re-roll"

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The following environment variables are used by the script:

.IP "OPENAI_API_KEY"
The OpenAI API key used for interacting with the GPT-3.5-turbo model. This must be set before running the script.

.SH EXAMPLES
Translate a natural language prompt into a bash command:
.B chatbash "create a new directory called my_directory"

Translate a prompt and get a quick explanation of the generated command:
.B chatbash -q "list all files in the current directory"

.SH SOLIDARITY
Workers of the world unite! Together, we can achieve great things and strive for a better future.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.

.SH AUTHOR
Original author: voidfemme

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR python (1),
.BR bash (1),
.BR openai (1)
